How do we subtract the continuum from a spectrum in a consistent,
quantitative, and efficient manner?  In particular, how can we
quantify the quality of the continuum subtraction to determine the
accuracy of the photometric calibration?

Say our spectra range from 3000-8000 angstroms.  The catalog of lines
observed in external galaxies should be completely tractable.
Therefore, imagine choosing ranges in the continuum known to be free
of emission/absorption lines.  These regions should be examined in all
the spectra to ensure that indeed no emission lines appear in those
wavelength regions.  Use those points to fit a low-order polynomial or
a third-order spline to the continuum and subtract it from the
spectrum.  The continuum in certain bandpasses can be summed for
continuum spectrophotometry.

Now take the continuum-subtracted spectrum and do a 1.5-3 sigma
iterative clip to try and remove the emission/absorption lines, and
examine the rms dispersion of flux values of the remaining pixels.  If
the mean/median is not near zero and the dispersion is not
approximately the expected noise, then redo the continuum
subtraction.  This should allow one to look for systematics in the
continuum subtraction with wavelength.  

Equivalent widths can be measured for all the lines using a catalog of
expected emission/absorption lines.  Use the instrumental width as a
first guess to the gaussian FWHM, and fit to the amplitude, sigma
width, and central wavelength (or keep this parameter fixed, having
corrected for the systemic velocity).  That should yield ratios very
quickly and accurately.

Also, a very good bias subtraction and flat-fielding must be
accomplished.  By definition, flat-fielding attempts to remove
pixel-to-pixel variations in the CCD.  With the flats, one could plot
a two dimensional surface of the pixel response as a function of the
CCD rows and columns.  Assume the pixel response varies linearly
across one length of the CCD.  By fitting a linear function to the
flat-fields and minimizing the residuals, the effect could be
subtracted.  Extrapolating this idea, imagine choosing a general
function along an arbitrary direction (maybe parameterize the function
in polar coordinates), which could then be fit to the flat field, and
an idea of the flat-fielding accuracy could be obtained.  One caveat:
what if the CCD does not vary according to one single function across
the entire chip?  Well, then a more general function must be chosen to
take this into account, perhaps even forcing particular functions to
be fit to particular regimes of the CCD.  Bias subtraction, on the
other hand, should be trivial, even if it requires examining the
overscan region.

Once flat-fielding and bias subtraction have been accomplished,
extracting a one-dimensional spectrum simply involves adding all the
flux along the slit axis (as opposed to the dispersion axis).
However, night sky lines should be removed as well during this
procedure.  Keith Horne developed a method in IRAF for "optimally
extracting" a spectrum, and this technique should be straight forward
to impliment in IDL.  A simply good enough template night-sky spectrum
should yield consistent results.  

What about the photometric and the wavelength calibration?  The
wavelength calibration should require a bit of user interaction, but
can be applied to all the spectra from a single night very rapidly,
assuming sufficient arc lamp exposures were taken.  Photometric
calibration is the tricky part.  First, a database of the observed
standard stars needs to be organized; then, a sensitivity function
needs to be constructed, which accounts for the airmass (which should
be a very simple correction) and the seeing/photometric conditions.
Hopefully, the observing conditions were photometric.  In principal,
spectrophotometry can be accurate to a few percent.

A database of information on the observed galaxies should be
cataloged, including measurements of metallicity, molecular gas
content, star-formation rate, morphology, merger stage (i.e.,
internuclear separation), etc.  Archival ultraviolet data might also
be collected to study the effects of dust and extinction.
Specifically, I would like to explore the question of whether the
correlation between infrared luminosity and dust content is due to a
UV selection effect.